Here is our API.
We are going to be using to get books.
OK, so this is Google APIs like comic book books like such, and you can pass a query.
For instance, if you want to Android books, you can say Android you can enter.
Then we should get a payload containing Android books.
So there's a lot of books.
You can see total items that say no, and you can see you have an array, a list containing all of the
books, right?
So these objects are the books, right?
So this is we're going to do.
And if you want to say Flutter, that's an example.
You can click there and you can see we have books containing books about Flutter.
And the great thing about each one of these books object, right?
It contains a few data points there, properties of kind tag.
We are going to be interested in some of these properties, not all of them, but most important ones
are going to be volume info and so have the title of the book authors is in array or list.
In this case, there's only one person or one author, but it could be more than one.
Their publisher published date.
And of course, we have descriptions, so we're going to be able to pull in an actual book and then
make that into an object.
To do so, we're going to use the help of Retrofit.
Retrofit is a type safe HP client for Android and Java.
So this is really helpful because it kind of abstract out all of the complexity that come with trying
to do HTP requests in Android, in development in general.
So I really encourage to use the retrofit is really simple to set up, as you will see.
And if you've been following us along, we've done this a few times, but I'm just going to show you
a few things along the way so that perhaps you can brush up on this.
All right.
So we need, of course, to add to this dependency.
A few of dependencies, I should say.
If you scroll down here, you'll see it will tell us this document will tell us a few other things that
we may need in order to actually be successful at getting the information, the JSON into the account,
into our apps so we can connect that to our objects.
So we will need JSON serialization library for that.
So let's go ahead and set that up.
So back to a project, I will go to our Build Gradle that app, which you can see just go to the second
one that says that app.
What I will do is I'm going to add some dependencies there, so have them already.
Again, you won't need to pause this video and type all of this.
You should be have access to all of this in GitHub because you should have access to all of the code
for this course.
All right.
So what we have here, we have retrofit, which is the library, I added.
And we have OK.
HTP essentially is another library that works with retrofit to do those calls right to calls to the
server.
In this case, our API to get information so just helps a lot.
And then we have these JSON converter also, which works with JSON and so forth.
All right.
Let's go ahead and sync.
So we'll look at our payload here.
Our API, this JSON.
There's a lot of information.
So we need a way to transform this into a module that we can use as an object calling object so that
we can have some sort of like a book for say.
OK.
So there's a lot of things here.
So what do you want to do really?
Just copy this link so we can automatically create those model class, copy those.
And let's open our project.
Let's go to our models.
Right click there.
What do you want to do?
Is want to right click in, say, new?
You will have this option of saying calling data class file from JSON, so click there, right?
And then right click inside here from Retrieve.
In this case, retrieve content from HTP URL.
This is what you want to do.
And then we're going to paste that URL.
My section say OK, may take a few seconds.
So it pulls in the entire payload.
And so this plug in is really helpful because it will go ahead and create all the classes that it needs.
That structure that we need so that we can then have objects or classes in this case that we can turn
them into actual objects to represent this Jason tree.
So let's give it a name.
Can you name anything you want?
But I'm going to just call this book like that.
OK?
They generate that going to take a few seconds.
And voila!
You can see it went ahead and generated a bunch of classes here.
So what it did, really, it looked at this entire tree and looked at the relationship.
So it looked at, for instance, this item.
It said, OK, we have first of all, this object currently braces there and then we have this property.
So it created one object that will enclose everything.
And then it looked at all of this properties added all of that.
And then it went.
It's looked at, for instance, this items.
We looked at it and said, OK, this is a list of a list of what?
Well, it's a list of objects.
So create another object in deed for all of that.
That's reason why we see all of these different classes right now if you go to book.
Book is going to be the central of everything.
It's a book in this case.
Like I said, it's going to be this whole payload here.
You know this because you see there is kind as property and there's total items as properties are true
indeed.
There's total items and there's kind in there is the items, which is a list of item.
If you control or command, click.
In this case, we can click this item here, it's going to be what?
Each one of these items inside of which instantly eats out a book per se.
OK, so should have kind ID tag and volume info.
Let's see.
All of that and we have the value info.
The value info, of course, is a type of volume info.
So if I go back here, it's going to have that value info, double click Whyalla Info.
That's where we have our authors.
That's why we have a description, image links and so forth.
So it created all of that for us.
OK, we'll get back to this.
Let's clear things up here.
And the next thing we are want to do?
Let's create a constant class.
So let's go to utils command new.
I created codling class.
This is just going to be let's make it an object so that it's easy to manage.
Call these constants.
OK.
So what is our Constance going to have?
Well, for now, just going to have a say constant vowel here and call this base,
underscore your L like this?
And let's go to our browser.
I'm going to copy that.
First of all, I'm going to add all of it in the comment outline there and paste it again there.
This is the base.
We want to have a basic rule and you will see once you start putting together, retrofit and so forth
to retrofit once the base URL so that then we can pass queries into retrofit to get the data we want.
What this means is all of this needs to go.
I'm going to get rid of all of that, and all I have is just this last four slash after V1.
Okay, because all of this is actually a path.
And then we have a query and we pass that query.
OK, and all of this is going to happen once we are dealing with retrofit and retrofit will need this
piece, these pieces of information to go and factually correct data.
So that's all.
Our bases are done.
OK.
Next, why do we need to do is let's go to our network.
And we need to create a new class here, Coughlin class.
And this is actually going to be an interface.
We're going to call this book's API as such.
What this will do, it's almost like a DAO.
Really, that's what it is.
So it's data access object.
This is going to be responsible for creating the infrastructure that will connect to our retrofit and
get information right.
In this case, get books and so forth.
Right.
So we're going to append or add this at Singleton to say this is just going to be a singleton class
singleton from Java effects such.
So now I'm going to say at get a such and what is it I'm going to do here?
Well, I'm going to pass a value.
Now this, I get, it's going to be from somewhere I'm going to import and there's value I'm going to
pass is volumes.
OK, you'll see in a bit here, let's say suspend function and call called Get all books such.
And then I'm going to say at query retrofit query like this and I'm going to pass the query character
such as this and the handyman to say query for retrofit.
It's going to be.
Actually, a strain would be passing and we expect to receive a book.
Oh, it's a lot of things here.
First of all, let's make sure this get is actually able to us to be at get like this.
There we go.
All right.
So let's go and import to that.
So what are we doing here is very simple is that we st get this is from retrofit, we see volumes.
So essentially we're going to append his volumes in our path.
Right?
And then I'm going to say Q for the actual query, say query.
And then I'm going to say, what is the query going to pass?
So it's going to be a string that you're going to be passing through the our search bar that we created.
OK.
This doesn't belong there, and this will return a book.
What is this book command click?
It's going to be this whole payload, really, because you see here we have items kind it total items.
The order is a little bit different, but that doesn't matter.
So we are saying we're going to get this entire payload when we search for something right, we need
to get, say something else and say at get again, retrofit and say suspend its pass, suspend function
because we want to make sure that we are using the core routines and so forth so that we don't run these
processes on main thread.
I'd get here.
I'm going to pass something here.
The value is going to be volumes.
Now I'm going to pass forward slash.
This is going to be a query.
So I need to go to a path.
In this case, I'm going to pass an ID, which is going to be a book ID.
So this is going to be used for when we want to actually query book ID.
We'll see in a bit book info such and now I'm going to see at path.
It's just going to be a path that we don't have to go to in order to get that information.
So in this case, and where Pash passed the book ID as the parameter, such has to be exactly the same,
same that we pass there and then it's going to be book ID.
It's going to be a string value and we expect to get item.
Now remember has to be our item from our model classes.
And what is this item again?
We click going to be this item, which will contain, of course, at the end, the volume info which
has the information bar book.
So we're saying now we're going to go and get one of these.
So now that we have a book CPI or Dow, we need to do what?
Well, we need to go to our module.
That module that is and here we're going to create a provider for it.
It makes sense single singleton and then pass at provides.
And then I'm going to say fine, provide book API such.
And this function is going to provide a book's API.
So it's going to, in this case, return in this case eBooks API.
So I'm going to go ahead and say the body once they return.
This is when I say this is where I'm going to set up our retrofit because we need to create the actual
retrofit object, which will be able to get to our API and do all the work that it needs to do.
All right.
So I'm going to return here and I say, Retrofit, OK, dad builder.
OK, and then I'm going to pass, say, dot based URL and you have to pass the base URL.
We call this base you r l c u r l will have to import that.
And then we're going to continue.
We're going to let's just see constant.
That base CRL, that would have worked because I'm sure it's just import imported our base or El.
So let's just get rid of that.
OK, so let's continue to build our retrofit object here, and then I'm going to add this.
Converter factory, because we need to convert what we're getting into objects that we can then attach
to codling, right, so we can have Cartland object.
So we're going to use the JSON.
Converter factory and create that, and then we're going to build and then we're going to say, create
once we build going to create what we're going to create that service.
In this case, it's going to be our books app class that Java like this.
So now this is going to provide our books API, which you can see it knows how to then go and get,
for instance, equerry.
We pass it query and then we get a book object, right?
And then later we can also pass it a book ID and get and get that book item.